---
layout: post
title: "Tisha b'Av"
categories:
  - threeweeks
  - daysofawe
  - tirayacu
---

My hevruta Rachel and I have decided to study [*This Is Real And You Are Completely Unprepared*](https://books.google.com/books/about/This_Is_Real_and_You_Are_Completely_Unpr.html?id=9dI3AQAAQBAJ&hl=en), 
a sefer by R' Alan Lew z"l that follows the Days of Awe as a journey of introspection and spiritual transformation. He 
interprets the term "Days of Awe" broadly, as the entire period between Tisha b'Av and Sukkot and not just 
the ten days between Rosh HaShana and Yom Kippur. 

Rachel is a chapter ahead of me in *TIRAYACU* and has warned me that its chapter on Tisha b'Av talks about the literal
rebuilding of the Temple in Jerusalem as something to be hoped for. I'm not too surprised to hear this from a 
Conservative rabbi, but I don't really agree with this or identify strongly with the Beit haMikdash.

Though perhaps thinking about my relationship to the Temple is something that I ought to do, given this week's
controversies about Israeli security forces on the Al-Aqsa Mosque/Temple Mount, and last week's shooting of 
Israeli police officers providing security there. Also, Women of the Wall, egalitarian davening space at the Kotel,
things to have in mind whilst reading this chapter.

**The following is pretty much a verbatim reproduction of my handwritten notes whilst I was reading this chapter, 
so they're not going to make much sense and I didn't do a very good job distinguishing from what's written in 
*TIRAYACU* and what's my reactions.**

 * "I turned, the walls came down, and there I was"
 * Parallel circles lunar/solar -- lunisolar calendar. parshiot aligning with holiday cycle
 * Simchat Torah -- last letter ל, first letter ב. Put the cycle together, they make לב -- heart
 * Tisha b'Av tragedies: 
   * destruction of the First Temple by Nebuchadnezzar and the Babylonians
   * destruction of the Second Temple by the Romans, 70 CE
 * coincides with the beginning of the book of Deuteronomy
 * according to Mishna ([Taanit 4:6](https://www.sefaria.org/Mishnah_Taanit.4.6?lang=bi)), more Tisha b'Av tragedies: 
   * scouts who came back fearful, so the Israelites didn't enter the Promised Land
   * fall of Betar
   * ploughing over of the Temple Mount
 * more modern era tragedies: 
   * expulsion from England -- 14th cent.
   * expulsion from Spain -- 15th cent.
   * massacres -- Crusades
   * assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand led to WWI (according to some historians, led to Shoah)
 * HISTORY REPEATS ITSELF
 * there is nothing new under the sun
   * same with spiritual paths, if we keep making wrong turns
 * same thing with Deuteronomy, as it mostly rehashes stuff from earlier in the Torah, except from Moses's 
   first person POV
 * Tisha b'Av: cursed time, or time to learn from past mistakes? Moment of teshuva exactly 7 weeks before Rosh HaShana
   * Where have we seen 7 weeks before? Pesach --> Shavuot
 * Rambam says: Teshuva is only complete when you find yourself in the same circumstances where you went wrong 
   (that always happens), and you behave differently
 * "The unresolved elements of our lives ... continue to pull us into the same moral and spiritual circumstances again 
   and again until we figure out how to resolve them" (p. 42)
 * Why was the Temple destroyed? *sinat hinam* (gratuitous hatred/infighting)? intolerance of the religious right? 
   failure to unite militarily against Rome? just inevitable?
   * There's totally parallels between this and modern day struggles. Dyke March Chicago, Women of the Wall, 
     queer rights and mobilisation against Trump... If I were more awake now (it's midnight), I'd totally spill 
     several pages of ink on sinat hinam in queer/leftist/jewish groups and talk about Temple/Tisha b'Av moments for 
     them!
 * our worldly power is circumscribed -- can only act in the now. can't change the past or guarantee the future
 * internalising vs externalising failures. different strategies when you're talking about history vs spirituality
 * *acknowledge our complicity* in what happens to us, and change so it doesn't happen again